But we just know of those three demand curve is also referred to as the marginal benefit curve, because it measures the benefit of the consumer. So demand, if you recall, refers to consumers. They get a benefit from buying this phone. So the demand curve is also the marginal benefit curve. It also is referred to often as the willingness to pay her. Some people might be willing to pay 200 for the phone. Others might only be willing to pay 150, others only 100. So the demand curve captures that willingness to pay. What else does it show us? For example, we move from point a to b then it means as the price comes down, the quantity demanded, increases. This is actually referred to as the law of demand. And that's that's nothing too complicated. You're familiar with that in your own life. When when you see a deal or a sale, price comes down or last friday is coming and everything is 50 % off, then you might be tempted to get a certain product, or you go to the store and you go in getting a good price.
So it just captures that. Price goes down. It's kind of relates that to the demand, to the quality demand for stuff. So this law of demand is true. To hear these articles. Remember, economics always makes assumptions to tell you how it was a latin phrase. Has anyone heard it before? Maybe that is probably open to me. Any thoughts? Any latin speakers? I when I went to high school, we have to learn a foreign language at the age of ten. That's when we learn our first foreign language, which in my case is english, quite a german school. I was in 5th grade and then 7th grade. You have to choose another foreign language in my school. I was pretty found out at the time. It was not more largely happen instead of getting in which they speak, maybe in the church.
But nobody speaks really latin. Why not spanish or french and english? Perhaps you are not. Ii i'm happy about in retrospective because that was kind of the root of french and spanish. Often I can guess words. Wasn't that? But chinese party was means all else held constant. It means all other factors are held constant. That means, in my example, when we look at the example here, the variable that's changing is the price. Make a little triangle here. That's the greek letter for delta means change. Here, the only the price variable change, nothing else changes in the economy. Everything else is being held constant. So that's the big assumption for this law union.
Then let's talk about what kind of factors, what kind of factors can change in there. Do. You have any thoughts? And and the name of the audience is the what technology is an important factor in the economy. But let's put my technology for a little bit. What is it in the united states? Is it? So doing with the right words, anyone want to help out? Thank you.
For sit up in the started, what's important for us? Consumers to make a decision to demand something or to buy something, what's really important to start to do? What is university? Scarcity? Is it. Yeah, so when there is a scarcity of products that it's hard to get, and then the price goes up. So that's always important and connected to that one. What's important for us? Consumers? Yeah, I don't think I was thinking like you need writings that are your basic needs like to help you get ready to work to take some. Yeah, it's just focus on your basically like you're like kind of like in fact that you have. Yes, you like, situations can affect what demand you have. You might just people in gaza. I'm sure they're not interested in and fancy clothes or watches. They're just interested in water and food and survival, right? Depending on the situation, what is important for you to facilitate your needs? The income.
So the first factor that's really important is your income. And let's say your income magically increases. Let's say you have a new job. What will be the impact on your demand? It goes up. Demand will increase. So demand typically is related to your income, to your purchasing power. A new job will facilitate and increase your demand. So then in the model, we show our original demand curve d one. And let's say the prices, let's say the price is at 1:50, that's called point b and selling 45. But now people have new jobs. We can do jobs and the demand increase, and we see a demand curve shifting to the right. What that means is now the price did not change. Price is fixed. The goods price did not change. What changed was something else in the economy found a new job. You got a tax refund or an inheritance for your parents gave you some money and so that your demand increases.
If you lose your job, what happens to your demand? Line go up in, line goes inward, shifts to the left, increase in demand. We are shifted to the right and decrease in demand and shifted to the left.
A second factor that influence demand is your what's called your preferences, or sometimes it's called the case. Let's say there's a study that says, I do what you want to listen to it. I'm sure that bonds are bad for your health, mental health, or even maybe some kind of little radioactive vibrations on your head or whatever this is a tool that this credible study comes out saying that phones are not good for you.
What would you say would happen to the demand for phones? It would go down, I said except we're all addicted to phones so really tough to get away from it. Yeah, but for any good doesn't have to be phones. If if your tastes change or your preferences, and you just don't like that good anymore for whatever reason the demand decreases, then we would shift the curve to the left. If this is t one, this is my original .. And again, nothing happens to the price, but you change in your mind. You don't like this product anymore. So at at any given price, you are selling less. There's more examples. Let's say population increases, sample in our political arena. All the people in north gaza were ordered to go south. Thousands of people have traveled south. Gaza is completed all along with people, because you won't be the people in the streets and always everywhere. They don't have housing for so many people. The population increases to whatever matter what happens to demand, shift the rights to the right?
So again, all these people would want to eat and health, goods and services, certainly. So a few words now about supply, going to the supply side of things. In my example, we have, again, the model. Now, it shows the supply side as an upward sloping curve, which shows that at $150 price, we were selling 45. So we're using the same data as before. And what we notice is the when the price goes up, we actually see the quantity supply going up. What that means is that we're moving from point a to point b as a producer, we have to cover the cost of additional production to make 25 ohms here.
Now we have to make 50. There could be some zeros on these numbers, 40, five thousand and fifty thousand. That means we need more material, we need more workers, we need more. It will cost more to produce more than increase in price, facilitate stuff. The supply curve is also referred to as the marginal cost. Her the supply curve measures the cost of production, the cost of things. Sometimes it's also referred to as the willingness to accept her. So the seller is willing to accept a certain price in order to produce a certain amount. This here, price increases, quality increases as the law of supply. It's very analog to our demand side. And also syria's particle, we assume that everything else is being held most, like her upward sloping demand, her downward sloping supply curve, a positive relationship, those two arrows all in the same direction, demand curve, a negative relationship, or inverse relationship, the arrows going opposite directions.
Yeah, I noticed that like on our demand, first that we had 208 pairs of 40, but now we have 250 %. Yes, you are, right? So I guess these are independent numbers, not exactly from the schedule that I used before. The idea being for the supply side, that a higher price is needed to facilitate higher production, increasing quality. Yeah, so maybe don't get necessarily hang up on the schedule that I used for the demand side. I thought I was just gonna use the same one, but it doesn't work. Yeah. So to chinese harbors, let's think again about factors that would shift the entire supply for you. Think of some if you were a producer, what impacts your supply as a producer。
